## Engineering Professionalism

#### General Principles
An important aspect of engineering is communication. Throughout the course of this project, 
different levels of communication with different audiences were required. The most prevelent 
communication task was internal. Working in a group effectivly demands clear and regular 
communication about ideas, project direction, and immediate goals to work towards. The process used
to accomplish this is discussed later in detail. Strong communication skills are an important part
of a larger engineering topic, which is the ability to work in a team.

Part of being an engineer is the ability to work in a professional manner regardless of personal
issues which may arise. An engineer is responsible for improving the quality of work their team 
produces. Our project group has worked towards this by developing an atmosphere where everyone
feels comfortable voicing their opinions, giving and receiving critical feedback, and feels like
they are making a useful contribution to the overall goals of the team.

#### Future Concerns

An area of Engineering Professionalism which future groups developing this project may need to 
investigate is the idea of Intellectual Property. Under the Copyright Act in Canada, computer 
software is labeled and protected as a literary work and is protected automatically [^PR-2-1]. This 
means that anyone who is not an owner the copyright cannot produce copies of this software. However,
depending on the future development of the machine learning component, further protection may be
required in the form of patents.

A software patent can only be obtained for an implemented feature which is "new, useful, and 
non-obvious" [PR-2-1]. If the machine learning aspect of this project improves to the point where 
there is a systematic way to learn desired behaviours with a high degree of accuracy and precision,
it may be worth investigating patent protection. Unlike a Copyright, a Patent must be applied for
and approved.

#### References

[^PR-2-1]: P. B. Kerr, "Computer Software Law in Canada," in Software Law in Canada. [Online]. 
Available: http://users.trytel.com/~pbkerr/computer.html#Copyright. Accessed: Mar. 3, 2017.

