# Conclusion and Recommendations

An issue for existing smart homes is having their system accessible enough for 
non-technical users. Specifically, the initial system setup, connecting new devices, monitoring and 
controlling connected devices, and configuring behaviours need to be simple and user friendly.

Aria allows a user to connect a new Z-Wave device by pressing the 'Discover' button on the home
page of the user interface. The user must then press the pairing button which is present on the
physical Z-Wave device. At this point the device will be added to the system and can be controlled 
in the same way as every other connected device. Sonos speakers are also currently supported, which 
operate over WiFi instead of Z-Wave. The system can be expanded to support other device protocols
as well. Events generated by these devices can be viewed in real-time on the homepage of the user 
interface. To view and control the state of any individual device, one must simply navigate to the 
'Devices' tab and find the desired device. All devices are displayed with intuitive controls 
depending on their capabilities. Finally, users are able to train Aria to learn desired behaviours.
This is done by placing the system in 'Training' mode, creating a new 'Behaviour', and adding 
'Training Sessions' to that behaviour. A training session is simply the user performing the desired
sequence of events. 

The major feature for future development of the Aria system is the machine learning component. The
current machine learning algorithm does not work well when dealing with continuous values such
as temperature. Modifying the algorithm to be able to handle ranges of values instead of specific
individual values would be a valuable improvement. Another problem with the current system is the 
scalability of the machine learning. As more sensors and devices are added, eliminating noise in the
data becomes difficult. This noise leads to difficulties in training the system not to perform 
undesirable actions. A second area for future development is to expand support for non Z-Wave third
party devices. This can be accomplished by adding new software adapters for the desired device 
protocols.       