### Overall Description

#### Product Perspective {-}

Systems are becoming more readily available in the general market place. This system builds upon
traditional home automation systems by adding true automation in the form of learning. Unlike
traditional systems, this system observes the homeowner's interactions with devices and
automatically makes decisions based on historical behaviours. By combining the fields of machine
learning and home automation, the our system will provide an end user with a simplified
smart home experience.

#### Product Functions {-}

To provide simplicity and seamless interaction, the system must be easy to use and highly
interactive. The system will provide a learning hub that will be the base of computation and
communication for all other components in the system.

The system will have many different smart devices. These devices can be sensory inputs or controls
for a task. To allow for expansion of the automation system, it must be able to accept new devices.
The system must then retain its previous model of the user's interactions but add in the new device
as evidence for predicting future behaviours. For example, a system might include a light sensor,
thermostat and curtain puller. If the ambient light outside was to drop and the user closed the
curtains then the system might predict that a change in light corresponds to that action. If the
user then changes the temperature, the system may relate light to temperature as well. If later a
temperature sensor was added to the system and the user changes the temperature when it is too cold,
the system will use this information to predict future actions.

To be able to monitor and control the system, the learning hub must be controllable using a
graphical interface. This interface will be provided in the form of a web interface and allow the
user to view the state of the system and manually control any connected device. This interface can
be used for manually configuring desired behaviours as well as for enabling the training mode of the
system. The interface must allow the user to view the state of all devices in the system as well as
view their recorded interactions.

#### User Classes {-}

While the primary audience of the system is a homeowner, it is also for building owners, nursing
home residence, or anyone who needs building automation. The end user of this product is intended to
be non-technical users who want simple control and automation of their building. This product will
also provide utilities for more technically proficient users who wish to create their own devices
that communicate to the system.

##### Base User (Non-Technical Users) {-}

- End user of the system that needs simple interface to use system - Will want low maintenance to
keep system running and expect system to perform correctly

##### Developers (Technical Users) {-}

- Will require technical documentation about the system - Will require a development toolkit for
creating custom devices for the system - May also be a base user


