### System Data {#sec-3-2-8-1}

The end goal of the Aria system is to have a machine learning component making decision based on
the past actions of the user. In order to accomplish this, data must be collected, organized, and
stored in a way which can later be presented to an algorithm as input. This section will outline
the different types of information being collected by our system and the importance of this 
information.

##### Devices {-}

Devices are the backbone of any home automation system, as they are the objects being controlled.
Different devices such as a light bulb, thermostat, or motion sensor all fill a different role in a
home automation system. There needs to be a common way to store information about these devices to
enable them to be displayed and controlled through an interactive user interface. Information about
how to send messages to devices, what capabilities they have, and about their current state is all
important. Once devices are able to be represented, a record of their state changes and factors 
leading to those state changes must be captured.

##### Device State Changes {-} 

Depending on the type of device, a state change can mean many different things. Some devices will
have autonomous state changes, such as a motion sensor suddenly detecting motion, while a light bulb 
will only have a state change if the user explicitly turns it on or off. Our system needs a way to 
differentiate between events generated by a device automatically, user requests to change a device's
state, and events generated specifically by a user. When a state change occurs, the specific 
information about what value changed on what device must be remembered. Because the Aria system 
includes a machine learning component, there also needs to be a differentiation between state 
changes caused by the user and state changes caused by a learned behaviour of the system.

##### Learning {-}

The user is responsible for training the Aria system to learn any specific desired functionality.
They must create the behaviour they want the system to learn, and populate that behaviour with
training sessions. There needs to be the capability to then associate any device events and requests
with an ongoing training session, and to associate that training session to the correct behaviour.
The relationships between user generated state changes, device generated events, and the connection
between these and training sessions must be preserved in a clean enough way that it can be used as
input to a machine learning algorithm to produce the desired results.

##### Summary {-}

Being able to properly represent different devices and interactions with their environment requires
a structured method of storing information. Using this information to provide accurate machine
learning means that the relationships connecting this information must be persisted. These are the
factors that were taken into consideration when selecting an appropriate method for data persistence.  